YodaQA REST API
===============

The main public YodaQA API endpoint, if you do not want to roll your own,
is http://qa.ailao.eu/ (this web address also contains a bare-bones debugging
web interface; http://live.ailao.eu/ is the canonical web interface).

If you want to do anything with the public endpoint besides casual use
and experiments, please talk to us at ailao@ailao.eu first.  As it is now,
the endpoint can't handle more than 2-3 questions total per minute; it's
meant just for demo purposes.


Question asking
---------------

To start answering process use POST request method to `/q` with the *text* attribute set to asked question. Return value is ID of question.


Answer retrieving
-----------------

To retrieve answers use GET request method in format `/q/<id>`, where *id* is id returned during questioning. Answers is returned in JSON.


Answered questions
------------------

To retrieve last six questions use GET request method in format `/q/?answered`. Questions are returned in JSON. Returned JSON contains array of questions.


Question in progress
--------------------

To retrieve question in progress use GET request method in format `/q/?inProgress`. Waiting questions are returned in JSON.


Questions in queue
------------------

To retrieve questions waiting in queue use GET request method in format `/q/?toAnswer`. Waiting questions are returned in JSON.


Structure of question JSON object
---------------------------------

Structure of question JSON object is:

* id - question's id
* text - question's text
* summary - object with question's summary with structure:
  * lats - [Array] summary of answer types (eq. For question "Who created Microsoft?" lats will be "Person", because user is asking for person)
  * concepts - [Array] array of objects with concepts. Concept is page, which contains answer with high probability.  Concept object has structure:
    * title - title of concept page
    * pageID - id of Wikipedia concept page

* sources - [Map] map of sources. Source is object representing web page, which contains answer.
  The master documentation for individual attributes is in
  src/main/java/cz/brmlab/yodaqa/flow/dashboard/AnswerSource*,
  but in general the source object has structure:
  * title - title of origin’s page
  * type - type of source: “enwiki”, "bing", "dbpedia", "freebase"
  * origin - strategy that was used to generate the answer from the source (this is partially type-specific):
    * "title-in-clue" - question was generated from document found by page title
    * "fulltext" - question was generated from full text search
    * "document title" - question was generated from page title based on full text search
    * "ontology" - question was generated from a curated structured database
    * "raw property" - question was generated from a noisy structured database
    * "specific property" - question was generated by a question-targetted property lookup in structured database
  * pageId - (optional) id of Wikipedia page
  * URL - (optional) URL of source
  * isConcept - (optional) if page is concept or not
  * sourceID - source's id
  * state - state of source. Possible values are
    * 0 - source has not been extracted yet
    * 1 - source extracting
    * 2 - source already extracted

* answers – [Array] array of answers. Answer is represented by object with structure:
  * text - answer’s text
  * confidence – answer’s confidence expressed by number from interval of [0, 1]
  * ID – answer’s id
  * snippetIDs – [Array] IDs of snippets sourcing the answer

* snippets - [Map] map of snippets. Snippets is object containing addition explanation of answer. It has structure:
  * snippetID - snippet's id
  * sourceID - snipet's source
  * Furthermore, in case of a snippet corresponding to a piece of text (from fulltext answer source):
    * passageText - Text in which answer was founded
  * In case of a snippet corresponding to an object property from a structured database:
    * propertyLabel - Label of the property
    * witnessLabel - (optional) Label of an additional selector (in addition to the object that is the answer source)

* answerSentence - a string that describes the top answer as a complete utterance

* finished – if question has been finished already
* gen_sources – number of generated sources
* gen_answers – number of generated answers
